Readme.md, before:

# FastSD CPU :sparkles: [![Mentioned in Awesome OpenVINO](https://awesome.re/mentioned-badge-flat.svg)](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/awesome-openvino)

FastSD CPU is a faster version of Stable Diffusion on CPU. Based on [Latent Consistency Models](https://github.com/luosiallen/latent-consistency-model) and
[Adversarial Diffusion Distillation](https://nolowiz.com/fast-stable-diffusion-on-cpu-using-fastsd-cpu-and-openvino/).

The following interfaces are available :

- Desktop GUI (Qt,faster)
- WebUI
- CLI (CommandLine Interface)

🚀 Using __OpenVINO(SDXS-512-0.9)__, it took __0.82 seconds__ (__820 milliseconds__) to create a single 512x512 image on a __Core i7-12700__.

## Supported platforms⚡️

- Windows
- Linux
- Mac
- Android + Termux
- Raspberry PI 4

## 🚀 Fast 1 step inference (SDXS-512-0.9)

### Inference Speed

Tested on Core i7-12700 to generate __512x512__ image(1 step).

__SDXS-512-0.9__

| Diffusion Pipeline    | Latency       |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| Pytorch               | 4.8s          |
| OpenVINO              | 3.8s          |
| OpenVINO + TAESD      | __0.82s__     |

## 🚀 Fast 1 step inference (SD/SDXL Turbo - Adversarial Diffusion Distillation,ADD)

Added support for ultra fast 1 step inference using [sdxl-turbo](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/sdxl-turbo) model

:exclamation: These SD turbo models are intended for research purpose only.

### Inference Speed

Tested on Core i7-12700 to generate __512x512__ image(1 step).

__SD Turbo__

| Diffusion Pipeline    | Latency       |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| Pytorch               | 7.8s          |
| OpenVINO              | 5s            |
| OpenVINO + TAESD      | 1.7s          |

__SDXL Turbo__

| Diffusion Pipeline    | Latency       |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| Pytorch               | 10s           |
| OpenVINO              | 5.6s          |
| OpenVINO + TAESDXL    | 2.5s          |

## 🚀 Fast 2 step inference (SDXL-Lightning - Adversarial Diffusion Distillation)

SDXL-Lightning works with LCM and LCM-OpenVINO mode.You can select these models from app settings.

Tested on Core i7-12700 to generate __768x768__ image(2 steps).

| Diffusion Pipeline    | Latency       |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| Pytorch               | 18s           |
| OpenVINO              | 12s           |
| OpenVINO + TAESDXL    | 10s           |

- *SDXL-Lightning* - [rupeshs/SDXL-Lightning-2steps](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/SDXL-Lightning-2steps)

- *SDXL-Lightning OpenVINO* - [rupeshs/SDXL-Lightning-2steps-openvino-int8](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/SDXL-Lightning-2steps-openvino-int8)

## Memory requirements

Minimum system RAM requirment for FastSD CPU.

Model (LCM,OpenVINO): SD Turbo, 1 step, 512 x 512

Model (LCM-LoRA): Dreamshaper v8, 3 step, 512 x 512

| Mode                  | Min RAM       |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| LCM                   | 2 GB          |
| LCM-LoRA              | 4 GB          |
| OpenVINO              | 11 GB         |

If we enable Tiny decoder(TAESD) we can save some memory(2GB approx) for example in OpenVINO mode memory usage will become 9GB.

:exclamation: Please note that guidance scale >1 increases RAM usage and slow inference speed.

![FastSD CPU Desktop GUI Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/fastsdcpu-gui.jpg)

## Features

- Supports 256,512,768 image sizes
- Supports Windows and Linux
- Saves images and diffusion setting used to generate the image
- Settings to control,steps,guidance and seed
- Added safety checker setting
- Maximum inference steps increased to 25
- Added [OpenVINO](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino) support
- Added web UI
- Added CommandLine Interface(CLI)
- Fixed OpenVINO image reproducibility issue
- Fixed OpenVINO high RAM usage,thanks [deinferno](https://github.com/deinferno)
- Added multiple image generation support
- Application settings
- Added Tiny Auto Encoder for SD (TAESD) support, 1.4x speed boost (Fast,moderate quality)
- Safety checker disabled by default
- Added SDXL,SSD1B - 1B LCM models
- Added LCM-LoRA support, works well for fine-tuned Stable Diffusion model 1.5  or SDXL models
- Added negative prompt support in LCM-LoRA mode
- LCM-LoRA models can be configured using text configuration file
- Added support for custom models for OpenVINO (LCM-LoRA baked)
- OpenVINO models now supports negative prompt (Set guidance >1.0)
- Real-time inference support,generates images while you type (experimental)
- Fast 2,3 steps inference
- Lcm-Lora fused models for faster inference
- Supports integrated GPU(iGPU) using OpenVINO (export DEVICE=GPU)
- 5.7x speed using OpenVINO(steps: 2,tiny autoencoder)
- Image to Image support (Use Web UI)
- OpenVINO image to image support
- Fast 1 step inference (SDXL Turbo)
- Added SD Turbo support
- Added image to image support for Turbo models (Pytorch and OpenVINO)
- Added image variations support
- Added 2x upscaler (EDSR and Tiled SD upscale (experimental)),thanks [monstruosoft](https://github.com/monstruosoft) for SD upscale
- Works on Android + Termux + PRoot
- Added interactive CLI,thanks [monstruosoft](https://github.com/monstruosoft)
- Added basic lora support to CLI and WebUI
- ONNX EDSR 2x upscale
- Add SDXL-Lightning support
- Add SDXL-Lightning OpenVINO support (int8)
- Add multilora support,thanks [monstruosoft](https://github.com/monstruosoft)
- Add basic ControlNet v1.1 support(LCM-LoRA mode),thanks [monstruosoft](https://github.com/monstruosoft)
- Add ControlNet annotators(Canny,Depth,LineArt,MLSD,NormalBAE,Pose,SoftEdge,Shuffle)
- Add SDXS-512 0.9 support
- Add SDXS-512 0.9 OpenVINO,fast 1 step inference (0.8 seconds to generate 512x512 image)
- Default model changed to SDXS-512-0.9
- Faster realtime image generation

## 2 Steps fast inference (LCM)

FastSD CPU supports 2 to 3 steps fast inference using LCM-LoRA workflow. It works well with SD 1.5 models.

![2 Steps inference](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/2steps-inference.jpg)

## OpenVINO support

Thanks [deinferno](https://github.com/deinferno) for the OpenVINO model contribution.
We can get 2x speed improvement when using OpenVINO.
Thanks [Disty0](https://github.com/Disty0) for the conversion script.

### OpenVINO SD Turbo models

We have converted SD/SDXL Turbo models to OpenVINO for fast inference on CPU. These models are intended for research purpose only. Also we converted TAESDXL MODEL to OpenVINO and

- *SD Turbo OpenVINO* - [rupeshs/sd-turbo-openvino](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/sd-turbo-openvino)
- *SDXL Turbo OpenVINO int8* - [rupeshs/sdxl-turbo-openvino-int8](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/sdxl-turbo-openvino-int8)
- *TAESDXL OpenVINO* - [rupeshs/taesdxl-openvino](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/taesdxl-openvino)

You can directly use these models in FastSD CPU.

### Convert SD 1.5 models to OpenVINO LCM-LoRA fused models

We first creates LCM-LoRA baked in model,replaces the scheduler with LCM and then converts it into OpenVINO model. For more details check [LCM OpenVINO Converter](https://github.com/rupeshs/lcm-openvino-converter), you can use this tools to convert any StableDiffusion 1.5 fine tuned models to OpenVINO.

## Real-time text to image (EXPERIMENTAL)

Now we can generate near real-time text to images using FastSD CPU.

**CPU (OpenVINO)**

Near real-time inference on CPU using OpenVINO, run the `start-realtime.bat` batch file and open the link in brower (Resolution : 256x256,Latency : 2.3s on Intel Core i7)

**Colab (GPU)**

You can use the colab to generate real-time images (Resolution : 512x512,Latency : 500ms on Tesla T4)
[![Open in Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1slhhDhxPcb0Xk19nMuxWT9xG6VrmE4a5?usp=sharing)

Watch YouTube video :

[![IMAGE_ALT](https://img.youtube.com/vi/s2zSxBHkNE0/sddefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/s2zSxBHkNE0)

## Models

Fast SD supports LCM models and LCM-LoRA models.

### LCM Models

Following LCM models are supported:

- *LCM_Dreamshaper_v7* - <https://huggingface.co/SimianLuo/LCM_Dreamshaper_v7> by [Simian Luo](https://github.com/luosiallen)
- *SSD-1B* -LCM distilled version of [segmind/SSD-1B](https://huggingface.co/segmind/SSD-1B)
- *StableDiffusion XL* -LCM distilled version of [stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0)

### OpenVINO models

These are LCM-LoRA baked in models.

- [LCM-dreamshaper-v7-openvino](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/LCM-dreamshaper-v7-openvino) by Rupesh
- [LCM_SoteMix](https://huggingface.co/Disty0/LCM_SoteMix) by Disty0

### LCM-LoRA models

- *lcm-lora-sdv1-5* - distilled consistency adapter for [runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5)
- *lcm-lora-sdxl* - Distilled consistency adapter for [stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0)
- *lcm-lora-ssd-1b* - Distilled consistency adapter for [segmind/SSD-1B](https://huggingface.co/segmind/SSD-1B)

:exclamation: Currently no support for OpenVINO LCM-LoRA models.

### How to add new LCM-LoRA models

To add new model follow the steps:
For example we will add `wavymulder/collage-diffusion`, you can give Stable diffusion 1.5 Or SDXL,SSD-1B fine tuned models.

1. Open `configs/stable-diffusion-models.txt` file in text editor.
2. Add the model ID `wavymulder/collage-diffusion`  or locally cloned path.

Updated file as shown below :

```Lykon/dreamshaper-8
Fictiverse/Stable_Diffusion_PaperCut_Model
stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0
runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5
segmind/SSD-1B
stablediffusionapi/anything-v5
wavymulder/collage-diffusion
```

Similarly we can update `configs/lcm-lora-models.txt` file with lcm-lora ID.

### How to use LCM-LoRA models offline

Please follow the steps to run LCM-LoRA models offline :

- In the settings ensure that  "Use locally cached model" setting is ticked.
- Download the model for example `latent-consistency/lcm-lora-sdv1-5`
Run the following commands:

```
git lfs install
git clone https://huggingface.co/latent-consistency/lcm-lora-sdv1-5
```

Copy the cloned model folder path for example "D:\demo\lcm-lora-sdv1-5" and update the `configs/lcm-lora-models.txt` file as shown below :

```
D:\demo\lcm-lora-sdv1-5
latent-consistency/lcm-lora-sdxl
latent-consistency/lcm-lora-ssd-1b
```

- Open the app and select the newly added local folder in the combo box menu.
- That's all!

### How to use Lora models

Place your lora models in "lora_models" folder. Use LCM or LCM-Lora mode.
You can download lora model (.safetensors/Safetensor) from [Civitai](https://civitai.com/) or [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/)
E.g: [cutecartoonredmond](https://civitai.com/models/207984/cutecartoonredmond-15v-cute-cartoon-lora-for-liberteredmond-sd-15?modelVersionId=234192)

### ControlNet support

We can use ControlNet in LCM-LoRA mode.

Download ControlNet models from [ControlNet-v1-1](https://huggingface.co/comfyanonymous/ControlNet-v1-1_fp16_safetensors/tree/main).Download and place controlnet models in "controlnet_models" folder.

Use the medium size models (723 MB)(For example : <https://huggingface.co/comfyanonymous/ControlNet-v1-1_fp16_safetensors/blob/main/control_v11p_sd15_canny_fp16.safetensors>)

## FastSD CPU on Windows

:exclamation:**You must have a working Python installation.(Recommended : Python 3.10 or 3.11 )**

Clone/download this repo or download release.

### Installation

- Double click `install.bat`  (It will take some time to install,depending on your internet speed.)

### Run

You can run in desktop GUI mode or web UI mode.

#### Desktop GUI

- To start desktop GUI double click `start.bat`

#### Web UI

- To start web UI double click `start-webui.bat`

## FastSD CPU on Linux

Ensure that you have Python 3.9 or 3.10 or 3.11 version installed.

- Clone/download this repo
- In the terminal, enter into fastsdcpu directory
- Run the following command

  `chmod +x install.sh`

  `./install.sh`

#### To start Desktop GUI

  `./start.sh`

#### To start Web UI

  `./start-webui.sh`

## FastSD CPU on Mac

![FastSD CPU running on Mac](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/fastsdcpu-mac-gui.jpg)

### Installation

Ensure that you have Python 3.9 or 3.10 or 3.11 version installed.

- Clone/download this repo
- In the terminal, enter into fastsdcpu directory
- Run the following command

  `chmod +x install-mac.sh`

  `./install-mac.sh`

#### To start Desktop GUI

  `./start.sh`

#### To start Web UI

  `./start-webui.sh`

Thanks [Autantpourmoi](https://github.com/Autantpourmoi) for Mac testing.

:exclamation:We don't support OpenVINO on Mac (M1/M2/M3 chips, but *does* work on Intel chips).

If you want to increase image generation speed on Mac(M1/M2 chip) try this:

`export DEVICE=mps` and start app `start.sh`

## Web UI screenshot

![FastSD CPU WebUI Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/fastcpu-webui.png)

## Google Colab

Due to the limitation of using CPU/OpenVINO inside colab, we are using GPU with colab.
[![Open in Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1SuAqskB-_gjWLYNRFENAkIXZ1aoyINqL?usp=sharing)

## CLI mode (Advanced users)

![FastSD CPU CLI Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/fastcpu-cli.png)

 Open the terminal and enter into fastsdcpu folder.
 Activate virtual environment using the command:

#### Windows users

 (Suppose FastSD CPU available in the directory "D:\fastsdcpu")
  `D:\fastsdcpu\env\Scripts\activate.bat`

#### Linux users

  `source env/bin/activate`

Start CLI  `src/app.py -h`

## Android (Termux + PRoot)

FastSD CPU running on Google Pixel 7 Pro.

![FastSD CPU Android Termux Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/fastsdcpu-android-termux-pixel7.png)

### 1. Prerequisites

First you have to [install Termux](https://wiki.termux.com/wiki/Installing_from_F-Droid) and [install PRoot](https://wiki.termux.com/wiki/PRoot). Then install and login to Ubuntu in PRoot.

### 2. Install FastSD CPU

Run the following command to install without Qt GUI.

 `proot-distro login ubuntu`

 `./install.sh --disable-gui`

 After the installation you can use WebUi.

  `./start-webui.sh`

  Note : If you get `libgl.so.1` import error run `apt-get install ffmpeg`.

  Thanks [patienx](https://github.com/patientx) for this guide  [Step by step guide to installing FASTSDCPU on ANDROID](https://github.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/discussions/123)

## Raspberry PI 4 support

Thanks WGNW_MGM for Raspberry PI 4 testing.FastSD CPU worked without problems.
System configuration - Raspberry Pi 4 with 4GB RAM, 8GB of SWAP memory.

## Known issues

- TAESD will not work with OpenVINO image to image workflow

## License

The fastsdcpu project is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT license](https://github.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/blob/main/LICENSE)

## Disclaimer

Users are granted the freedom to create images using this tool, but they are obligated to comply with local laws and utilize it responsibly. The developers will not assume any responsibility for potential misuse by users.

## Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=rupeshs/fastsdcpu" />
</a>

Commit message:

Realtime ui updated, NPU check added,reverted default model to SDTurbo

Readme.md, after:

# FastSD CPU :sparkles: [![Mentioned in Awesome OpenVINO](https://awesome.re/mentioned-badge-flat.svg)](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/awesome-openvino)

FastSD CPU is a faster version of Stable Diffusion on CPU. Based on [Latent Consistency Models](https://github.com/luosiallen/latent-consistency-model) and
[Adversarial Diffusion Distillation](https://nolowiz.com/fast-stable-diffusion-on-cpu-using-fastsd-cpu-and-openvino/).

The following interfaces are available :

- Desktop GUI (Qt,faster)
- WebUI
- CLI (CommandLine Interface)

🚀 Using __OpenVINO(SDXS-512-0.9)__, it took __0.82 seconds__ (__820 milliseconds__) to create a single 512x512 image on a __Core i7-12700__.

## Supported platforms⚡️

- Windows
- Linux
- Mac
- Android + Termux
- Raspberry PI 4

## 🚀 Fastest 1 step inference (SDXS-512-0.9)

:exclamation:This is an experimental model, only text to image workflow is supported.

### Inference Speed

Tested on Core i7-12700 to generate __512x512__ image(1 step).

__SDXS-512-0.9__

| Diffusion Pipeline    | Latency       |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| Pytorch               | 4.8s          |
| OpenVINO              | 3.8s          |
| OpenVINO + TAESD      | __0.82s__     |

## 🚀 Fast 1 step inference (SD/SDXL Turbo - Adversarial Diffusion Distillation,ADD)

Added support for ultra fast 1 step inference using [sdxl-turbo](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/sdxl-turbo) model

:exclamation: These SD turbo models are intended for research purpose only.

### Inference Speed

Tested on Core i7-12700 to generate __512x512__ image(1 step).

__SD Turbo__

| Diffusion Pipeline    | Latency       |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| Pytorch               | 7.8s          |
| OpenVINO              | 5s            |
| OpenVINO + TAESD      | 1.7s          |

__SDXL Turbo__

| Diffusion Pipeline    | Latency       |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| Pytorch               | 10s           |
| OpenVINO              | 5.6s          |
| OpenVINO + TAESDXL    | 2.5s          |

## 🚀 Fast 2 step inference (SDXL-Lightning - Adversarial Diffusion Distillation)

SDXL-Lightning works with LCM and LCM-OpenVINO mode.You can select these models from app settings.

Tested on Core i7-12700 to generate __768x768__ image(2 steps).

| Diffusion Pipeline    | Latency       |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| Pytorch               | 18s           |
| OpenVINO              | 12s           |
| OpenVINO + TAESDXL    | 10s           |

- *SDXL-Lightning* - [rupeshs/SDXL-Lightning-2steps](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/SDXL-Lightning-2steps)

- *SDXL-Lightning OpenVINO* - [rupeshs/SDXL-Lightning-2steps-openvino-int8](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/SDXL-Lightning-2steps-openvino-int8)

## Memory requirements

Minimum system RAM requirment for FastSD CPU.

Model (LCM,OpenVINO): SD Turbo, 1 step, 512 x 512

Model (LCM-LoRA): Dreamshaper v8, 3 step, 512 x 512

| Mode                  | Min RAM       |
| --------------------- | ------------- |
| LCM                   | 2 GB          |
| LCM-LoRA              | 4 GB          |
| OpenVINO              | 11 GB         |

If we enable Tiny decoder(TAESD) we can save some memory(2GB approx) for example in OpenVINO mode memory usage will become 9GB.

:exclamation: Please note that guidance scale >1 increases RAM usage and slow inference speed.

![FastSD CPU Desktop GUI Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/fastsdcpu-gui.jpg)

## Features

- Supports 256,512,768 image sizes
- Supports Windows and Linux
- Saves images and diffusion setting used to generate the image
- Settings to control,steps,guidance and seed
- Added safety checker setting
- Maximum inference steps increased to 25
- Added [OpenVINO](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino) support
- Added web UI
- Added CommandLine Interface(CLI)
- Fixed OpenVINO image reproducibility issue
- Fixed OpenVINO high RAM usage,thanks [deinferno](https://github.com/deinferno)
- Added multiple image generation support
- Application settings
- Added Tiny Auto Encoder for SD (TAESD) support, 1.4x speed boost (Fast,moderate quality)
- Safety checker disabled by default
- Added SDXL,SSD1B - 1B LCM models
- Added LCM-LoRA support, works well for fine-tuned Stable Diffusion model 1.5  or SDXL models
- Added negative prompt support in LCM-LoRA mode
- LCM-LoRA models can be configured using text configuration file
- Added support for custom models for OpenVINO (LCM-LoRA baked)
- OpenVINO models now supports negative prompt (Set guidance >1.0)
- Real-time inference support,generates images while you type (experimental)
- Fast 2,3 steps inference
- Lcm-Lora fused models for faster inference
- Supports integrated GPU(iGPU) using OpenVINO (export DEVICE=GPU)
- 5.7x speed using OpenVINO(steps: 2,tiny autoencoder)
- Image to Image support (Use Web UI)
- OpenVINO image to image support
- Fast 1 step inference (SDXL Turbo)
- Added SD Turbo support
- Added image to image support for Turbo models (Pytorch and OpenVINO)
- Added image variations support
- Added 2x upscaler (EDSR and Tiled SD upscale (experimental)),thanks [monstruosoft](https://github.com/monstruosoft) for SD upscale
- Works on Android + Termux + PRoot
- Added interactive CLI,thanks [monstruosoft](https://github.com/monstruosoft)
- Added basic lora support to CLI and WebUI
- ONNX EDSR 2x upscale
- Add SDXL-Lightning support
- Add SDXL-Lightning OpenVINO support (int8)
- Add multilora support,thanks [monstruosoft](https://github.com/monstruosoft)
- Add basic ControlNet v1.1 support(LCM-LoRA mode),thanks [monstruosoft](https://github.com/monstruosoft)
- Add ControlNet annotators(Canny,Depth,LineArt,MLSD,NormalBAE,Pose,SoftEdge,Shuffle)
- Add SDXS-512 0.9 support
- Add SDXS-512 0.9 OpenVINO,fast 1 step inference (0.8 seconds to generate 512x512 image)
- Default model changed to SDXS-512-0.9
- Faster realtime image generation

## 2 Steps fast inference (LCM)

FastSD CPU supports 2 to 3 steps fast inference using LCM-LoRA workflow. It works well with SD 1.5 models.

![2 Steps inference](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/2steps-inference.jpg)

## OpenVINO support

Thanks [deinferno](https://github.com/deinferno) for the OpenVINO model contribution.
We can get 2x speed improvement when using OpenVINO.
Thanks [Disty0](https://github.com/Disty0) for the conversion script.

### OpenVINO SD Turbo models

We have converted SD/SDXL Turbo models to OpenVINO for fast inference on CPU. These models are intended for research purpose only. Also we converted TAESDXL MODEL to OpenVINO and

- *SD Turbo OpenVINO* - [rupeshs/sd-turbo-openvino](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/sd-turbo-openvino)
- *SDXL Turbo OpenVINO int8* - [rupeshs/sdxl-turbo-openvino-int8](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/sdxl-turbo-openvino-int8)
- *TAESDXL OpenVINO* - [rupeshs/taesdxl-openvino](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/taesdxl-openvino)

You can directly use these models in FastSD CPU.

### Convert SD 1.5 models to OpenVINO LCM-LoRA fused models

We first creates LCM-LoRA baked in model,replaces the scheduler with LCM and then converts it into OpenVINO model. For more details check [LCM OpenVINO Converter](https://github.com/rupeshs/lcm-openvino-converter), you can use this tools to convert any StableDiffusion 1.5 fine tuned models to OpenVINO.

## Real-time text to image (EXPERIMENTAL)

Now we can generate near real-time text to images using FastSD CPU.

**CPU (OpenVINO)**

Near real-time inference on CPU using OpenVINO, run the `start-realtime.bat` batch file and open the link in brower (Resolution : 256x256,Latency : 2.3s on Intel Core i7)

**Colab (GPU)**

You can use the colab to generate real-time images (Resolution : 512x512,Latency : 500ms on Tesla T4)
[![Open in Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1slhhDhxPcb0Xk19nMuxWT9xG6VrmE4a5?usp=sharing)

Watch YouTube video :

[![IMAGE_ALT](https://img.youtube.com/vi/s2zSxBHkNE0/sddefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/s2zSxBHkNE0)

## Models

Fast SD supports LCM models and LCM-LoRA models.

### LCM Models

Following LCM models are supported:

- *LCM_Dreamshaper_v7* - <https://huggingface.co/SimianLuo/LCM_Dreamshaper_v7> by [Simian Luo](https://github.com/luosiallen)
- *SSD-1B* -LCM distilled version of [segmind/SSD-1B](https://huggingface.co/segmind/SSD-1B)
- *StableDiffusion XL* -LCM distilled version of [stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0)

### OpenVINO models

These are LCM-LoRA baked in models.

- [LCM-dreamshaper-v7-openvino](https://huggingface.co/rupeshs/LCM-dreamshaper-v7-openvino) by Rupesh
- [LCM_SoteMix](https://huggingface.co/Disty0/LCM_SoteMix) by Disty0

### LCM-LoRA models

- *lcm-lora-sdv1-5* - distilled consistency adapter for [runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5)
- *lcm-lora-sdxl* - Distilled consistency adapter for [stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0)
- *lcm-lora-ssd-1b* - Distilled consistency adapter for [segmind/SSD-1B](https://huggingface.co/segmind/SSD-1B)

:exclamation: Currently no support for OpenVINO LCM-LoRA models.

### How to add new LCM-LoRA models

To add new model follow the steps:
For example we will add `wavymulder/collage-diffusion`, you can give Stable diffusion 1.5 Or SDXL,SSD-1B fine tuned models.

1. Open `configs/stable-diffusion-models.txt` file in text editor.
2. Add the model ID `wavymulder/collage-diffusion`  or locally cloned path.

Updated file as shown below :

```Lykon/dreamshaper-8
Fictiverse/Stable_Diffusion_PaperCut_Model
stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0
runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5
segmind/SSD-1B
stablediffusionapi/anything-v5
wavymulder/collage-diffusion
```

Similarly we can update `configs/lcm-lora-models.txt` file with lcm-lora ID.

### How to use LCM-LoRA models offline

Please follow the steps to run LCM-LoRA models offline :

- In the settings ensure that  "Use locally cached model" setting is ticked.
- Download the model for example `latent-consistency/lcm-lora-sdv1-5`
Run the following commands:

```
git lfs install
git clone https://huggingface.co/latent-consistency/lcm-lora-sdv1-5
```

Copy the cloned model folder path for example "D:\demo\lcm-lora-sdv1-5" and update the `configs/lcm-lora-models.txt` file as shown below :

```
D:\demo\lcm-lora-sdv1-5
latent-consistency/lcm-lora-sdxl
latent-consistency/lcm-lora-ssd-1b
```

- Open the app and select the newly added local folder in the combo box menu.
- That's all!

### How to use Lora models

Place your lora models in "lora_models" folder. Use LCM or LCM-Lora mode.
You can download lora model (.safetensors/Safetensor) from [Civitai](https://civitai.com/) or [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/)
E.g: [cutecartoonredmond](https://civitai.com/models/207984/cutecartoonredmond-15v-cute-cartoon-lora-for-liberteredmond-sd-15?modelVersionId=234192)

### ControlNet support

We can use ControlNet in LCM-LoRA mode.

Download ControlNet models from [ControlNet-v1-1](https://huggingface.co/comfyanonymous/ControlNet-v1-1_fp16_safetensors/tree/main).Download and place controlnet models in "controlnet_models" folder.

Use the medium size models (723 MB)(For example : <https://huggingface.co/comfyanonymous/ControlNet-v1-1_fp16_safetensors/blob/main/control_v11p_sd15_canny_fp16.safetensors>)

## FastSD CPU on Windows

:exclamation:**You must have a working Python installation.(Recommended : Python 3.10 or 3.11 )**

Clone/download this repo or download release.

### Installation

- Double click `install.bat`  (It will take some time to install,depending on your internet speed.)

### Run

You can run in desktop GUI mode or web UI mode.

#### Desktop GUI

- To start desktop GUI double click `start.bat`

#### Web UI

- To start web UI double click `start-webui.bat`

## FastSD CPU on Linux

Ensure that you have Python 3.9 or 3.10 or 3.11 version installed.

- Clone/download this repo
- In the terminal, enter into fastsdcpu directory
- Run the following command

  `chmod +x install.sh`

  `./install.sh`

#### To start Desktop GUI

  `./start.sh`

#### To start Web UI

  `./start-webui.sh`

## FastSD CPU on Mac

![FastSD CPU running on Mac](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/fastsdcpu-mac-gui.jpg)

### Installation

Ensure that you have Python 3.9 or 3.10 or 3.11 version installed.

- Clone/download this repo
- In the terminal, enter into fastsdcpu directory
- Run the following command

  `chmod +x install-mac.sh`

  `./install-mac.sh`

#### To start Desktop GUI

  `./start.sh`

#### To start Web UI

  `./start-webui.sh`

Thanks [Autantpourmoi](https://github.com/Autantpourmoi) for Mac testing.

:exclamation:We don't support OpenVINO on Mac (M1/M2/M3 chips, but *does* work on Intel chips).

If you want to increase image generation speed on Mac(M1/M2 chip) try this:

`export DEVICE=mps` and start app `start.sh`

## Web UI screenshot

![FastSD CPU WebUI Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/fastcpu-webui.png)

## Google Colab

Due to the limitation of using CPU/OpenVINO inside colab, we are using GPU with colab.
[![Open in Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1SuAqskB-_gjWLYNRFENAkIXZ1aoyINqL?usp=sharing)

## CLI mode (Advanced users)

![FastSD CPU CLI Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/fastcpu-cli.png)

 Open the terminal and enter into fastsdcpu folder.
 Activate virtual environment using the command:

#### Windows users

 (Suppose FastSD CPU available in the directory "D:\fastsdcpu")
  `D:\fastsdcpu\env\Scripts\activate.bat`

#### Linux users

  `source env/bin/activate`

Start CLI  `src/app.py -h`

## Android (Termux + PRoot)

FastSD CPU running on Google Pixel 7 Pro.

![FastSD CPU Android Termux Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/main/docs/images/fastsdcpu-android-termux-pixel7.png)

### 1. Prerequisites

First you have to [install Termux](https://wiki.termux.com/wiki/Installing_from_F-Droid) and [install PRoot](https://wiki.termux.com/wiki/PRoot). Then install and login to Ubuntu in PRoot.

### 2. Install FastSD CPU

Run the following command to install without Qt GUI.

 `proot-distro login ubuntu`

 `./install.sh --disable-gui`

 After the installation you can use WebUi.

  `./start-webui.sh`

  Note : If you get `libgl.so.1` import error run `apt-get install ffmpeg`.

  Thanks [patienx](https://github.com/patientx) for this guide  [Step by step guide to installing FASTSDCPU on ANDROID](https://github.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/discussions/123)

## Raspberry PI 4 support

Thanks WGNW_MGM for Raspberry PI 4 testing.FastSD CPU worked without problems.
System configuration - Raspberry Pi 4 with 4GB RAM, 8GB of SWAP memory.

## Known issues

- TAESD will not work with OpenVINO image to image workflow

## License

The fastsdcpu project is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT license](https://github.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/blob/main/LICENSE)

## Disclaimer

Users are granted the freedom to create images using this tool, but they are obligated to comply with local laws and utilize it responsibly. The developers will not assume any responsibility for potential misuse by users.

## Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/rupeshs/fastsdcpu/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=rupeshs/fastsdcpu" />
</a>
